---
title: langjam and project ideas
date: 2021-10-05
---

## langjam

> What is a langjam?

A hackathon in which projects are PL/compiler themed. *need to work on a better definition*

> How do we want to accommodate beginners?

- Week long series of workshops
  - Starter code provided
  - Self-guided
  - Mentors will help them understand the code
- Pair people with mentors
  - We can have people from the org volunteer
- Be up-front about the level of experience required to participate
  - Data structures and algorithms
  - Recommended classes
- Give people a week to work on the project

> Should we have a topic?

- Having a criteria will help participants scope their project
- Check-list that outlines the minimum number of things we're looking for in a valid submission
- Example theme:
  - Visual programming
  - Projects
    - Flow-chart drawing tool
    - Hardware description
    - Full stack development
    - Scripting UI

> Are we interested in having speakers?

- Yes!
- Need to provide incentives to people to come
  - Possibly food?
  - Networking session

> Do we want to open it to other colleges?

- Will help with getting more participants
- Other universities might have more developed PL clubs

> Venue?

- Hard to book space for this semester since we aren't a CoC org
- Might need to dfe
- Venue
  - having a space can be nice
  - there is a more social aspect
- Do we want to open it to colleges?
  - yes!

> When do we want to host this?

- Will need time to market
- Early November is too early; people don't know about the event yet
- Decision: Push to next semester!


## Project Ideas

- Thought:
  - Have a #suggestions channel or a form that people can fill out
- Initial ideas
  - Compiled Esolang
    - Develop an esolang
    - Develop a custom object format
    - Develop a processor that can run our object format
      - Processor can very well be a simulator
  - Web version of CircuitSim and Complx
    - Make the tech more portable
    - Students don't have to use Docker for it
  - Implementing PL features
    - Rust borrow checker
    - Continuous Passing Style (CPS) and related abstractions
    - async/await runtime
    - Hindley-Milner type inference
    - FORTH interpreter


## Club Feedback

- We should have a board
  - Will help make running the club smoother
- Utilize roles in Discord
- Make the schedule more visible
- Have impromptu conversations on Discord
  - More informal discussions

## TODOS

- [ ] Make a list of tasks for the event and have people sign up @elton
- [ ] Start creating a list of speakers for the langjam @elton
- [ ] Do role assignments @zachw
- [ ] #suggestions channel @elton
- [ ] Google form to guage project preferences; pick the top two @elton
